Background
Keloids are benign neoplasms characterized by dysregulated deposition of connective tissue extending beyond the boundaries of the original wound. Auricular keloids are most commonly caused by ear piercings1, with an incidence close to 2.5%2,3. The reported treatment methods include surgical excision4,5, steroid injection6,7, radiotherapy8,9, compression therapy10, cryotherapy11, imiquimod12 or a combination of the above13,14. The recurrence rate after surgery alone is frequently reported in the literature as 45% to 100%1,15-17. A recent systematic review suggests triamcinolone or radiation treatment following surgical excision to be equally effective for treatment of auricular keloids18. 
To the authors, “recalcitrant keloid” represents those keloids that recur after any previous treatment. Recalcitrant keloids pose an even greater challenge to the plastic surgeon. Previous treatment history, as opposed to no previous treatment history, in the setting of excision with adjuvant compression therapy has been shown to increase the likelihood of keloid recurrence at an odds ratio of 6.9310. Similarly, an increased risk of recurrence for recalcitrant keloids has also been shown in the setting of excision with adjuvant radiotherapy19. When compared to primary auricular keloids, recalcitrant auricular keloids have different growth rates7,10 and require a greater number of adjuvant steroid injections following excision to achieve treatment success7. Despite more aggressive steroid administration, the recurrence rate for treatment with excision and adjuvant steroid injection is as high as 40%7. Treatment with adjuvant radiotherapy following surgical excision is another common practice 20; however, the efficacy is unclear as treatment with excision plus adjuvant external beam radiation has yielded recurrence rates of 0%21 to 59%22. Evidently, there is no consensus on how best to treat recalcitrant auricular keloids. In attempt to define a treatment algorithm, we have performed the first systematic review and meta-analysis investigating the evidence for treating recalcitrant auricular keloids. 
Methods 
Literature Search
Research of the literature for this review article was implemented according to the protocol presented in the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses23. We performed an updated literature search on March 9, 2018 using Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid EMBASE, CINAHL and Ovid EBM Reviews. Review articles were searched for further relevant studies. Keywords used in our search included the following: ear*, keloid*, treat*, therap*, manag*, surg*, excis*, triamcinolone, steroid*, corticosteroid*, cryosurg*, cryotherap*, fluorouracil, 5- FU, Interferon, IFN, laser*, silicon*, Silicon Gel Sheeting (SGS), radiation*, radiotherap*, and compression. 

Eligibility Criteria 
Reports were selected using the following inclusion criteria: (1) any excision plus adjuvant treatment modality for recalcitrant keloids with recurrence as the outcome variable, (2) a description or statement identifying the lesion as a keloid, (3) minimum follow-up of one year. The following exclusion criteria were used to eliminate articles: (1) single case reports, (2) letters, (3) animal or in vitro studies, (4) prophylactic treatment, (5) insufficient data to determine recurrence for recalcitrant keloids, (6) no auricular keloids, (7) papers that stated both hypertrophic scars and keloids, but did not differentiate between them, (8) not in the English language, (9) repeated data sets.

Study Selection 
Two independent reviewers (LZ, BR) applied pre-specified inclusion and exclusion criteria to identify eligible studies. Articles were screened using titles and abstracts, followed by review of the full text for studies where the abstract did not contain sufficient information to determine eligibility. Disagreements on article eligibility were resolved via discussion between the two reviewers and if unresolved in this way, a third author (AVS) would decide. We wrote a script in R (a statistical programming language)24 to remove duplicate articles. The search results of each database are exported as text files. The script takes the text files as an input and identifies duplicate articles by giving each article a unique identifier using the concatenation of the first 4 letters of the author’s name, the article’s title, and the publication year. The results are then printed to an excel file containing a list of only the unique articles. We manually found and removed duplicates not found with the R script due to author and title spelling differences across databases. If the full text could not be found, we contacted the author to retrieve the article. We excluded articles from unresponsive authors and articles in non-English languages. We grouped studies by treatment modality and excluded any treatment modality with only one supporting article or less than 20 recalcitrant auricular keloids. 
Studies with follow-up time for each patient, but a minimum study follow-up time less than one year were assessed to see if any subjects had follow-up time of more than one year. Subjects with adequate follow-up time were then included, while those from the same study with inadequate or unreported follow-up time were excluded. We excluded papers if less than 2 recalcitrant auricular keloids could be extracted. Many articles that included both recalcitrant and primary keloids did not specify recurrence for the recalcitrant keloids. In this case, we contacted authors for clarification and excluded articles from unavailable authors.

Data Extraction
Two independent reviewers extracted data from included articles. Disagreements were resolved via discussion between the two reviewers. Data was collected on the number of recalcitrant keloids, treatment modality, recalcitrant keloid recurrence, prior treatment history, follow-up time and number of patients. The articles were assigned a level of evidence (LOE) adapted from the Oxford Centre for Evidence-based Medicine guidelines25 (Table 1). Where number of patients and not the number of keloids was presented, it was assumed that each patient had a single keloid. Number of auricular keloids that had received any prior treatment from each study were extracted for analysis. 

Statistical Analysis
R statistical software24 was used to conduct the meta-analysis to determine an estimated overall recurrence rate for each treatment modality. For each treatment modality, forest plots were generated to visualize the individual and estimated overall recurrence rates. For each rate, 95% confidence intervals were calculated using a generalized linear mixed effects model via the metafor package26. To assess the percentage of total variation across studies due to heterogeneity we used the I2 statistic. To test for possible differences between treatments, a generalized meta-analytic mixed effects model was fit to all the data, with treatment as a moderating variable. A p-value of less than 0.05 was determined to be significant.

Results 
Study Selection 
Figure 1 shows the study selection process. 1214 articles were retrieved from our database searches. The removal of duplicates yielded 887 unique articles. Screening of titles and abstracts excluded 600 articles. The full text of the remaining 287 articles were evaluated using the inclusion and exclusion criteria. A further 274 articles were excluded. Of these, 168 had insufficient data. Two articles were not found and were excluded. Five articles were found to be a repeated dataset. 16 review articles, 23 case reports and 28 letters were excluded. A further 32 articles were excluded because of treatment modality as described above in the study selection methods. A total of 13 articles were included in the final analysis, grouped into four treatment modalities for comparison.

Study Characteristics 
The extracted data for the 13 studies included in the analysis is listed in Table 2. 11 studies were graded LOE III, and two studies were evaluated to be LOE IV (Table 2). A total of 795 recalcitrant auricular keloids were identified across all included studies. Four treatment options met our inclusion criteria: (1) surgical excision and compression, (2) surgical excision and external beam radiation, (3) surgical excision and brachytherapy, (4) surgical excision and steroid injections. All included studies had at least one year of follow-up. The data for each treatment modality is listed in Table 3.

Efficacy of Treatment Modalities 
The efficacy of each treatment modality for treatment of recalcitrant auricular keloids was appraised using recurrence rates (Table 3). The recurrence rate for excision plus adjuvant brachytherapy was estimated as 9% (95% CI, 3%-25%). The recurrence rate for excision with adjuvant compression therapy was estimated as 14% (95% CI, 12%-17%). The recurrence rate for excision plus adjuvant external beam radiation was estimated as 17% (95% CI, 3%-56%). The recurrence rate for excision plus adjuvant steroid treatment was estimated as 18% (95% CI, 4%-53%). Figure 2 illustrates the meta-analysis results for each treatment modality. There was no overall difference in treatments (p=0.79, Omnibus test applied to treatment as a moderating variable). 

We ran a separate analysis using a six-month follow-up minimum cutoff. This provided two additional studies for inclusion27,28 for a total of 15 studies and 859 recalcitrant auricular keloids. The recurrence rate for excision plus adjuvant brachytherapy was estimated to be similar at 10% (95% CI, 4%-23%). The recurrence rate for excision with adjuvant compression therapy was nearly identical to the group with the one-year follow-up, estimated at 14% (95% CI, 12%-17%). The recurrence rate for excision plus adjuvant external beam radiation did not change and was estimated as 17% (95% CI, 3%-56%). The estimated recurrence rate for excision plus adjuvant steroid treatment increased to 26% (95% CI, 8%-61%). However, similar to comparing the treatment modalities using the one-year follow-up, there was no overall difference in treatment efficacy (p=0.40, Omnibus test applied to treatment as a moderating variable). 

Discussion 
Recalcitrant auricular keloids are difficult to treat and there is currently no evidence reliably suggesting the best treatment. High quality literature on auricular keloids is sparse, and only one systematic review with meta-analysis exists that compares surgical excision with adjuvant triamcinolone injections to surgical excision with adjuvant radiotherapy.18 Shin and colleagues found both modalities to be equally effective with recurrence rates of 15.4% (95%CI, 9.4%-24.1%) and 14% (95% CI, 9.6%-19.9%), respectively.18 However, the authors did not differentiate between primary and recalcitrant keloids and evidence shows that the latter have higher recurrence rates10,19. In contrast, our systematic review and meta-analysis investigated only recalcitrant auricular keloids and to our knowledge is the first to evaluate treatment for this difficult population of auricular keloids.

Excision with Brachytherapy
Recalcitrant auricular keloids treated with excision and adjuvant brachytherapy exhibit a recurrence rate of 9% (95% CI, 3%-25%): the lowest recurrence rate of all modalities compared in our meta-analysis. Combined recurrence rates for the treatment of both primary and recalcitrant auricular keloids are thought to be close to 12%.29,30 A recent meta-analysis comparing radiation modalities for treatment of primary and secondary keloids in multiple anatomical locations found that brachytherapy had the lowest recurrence rate of 15%.31 Another systematic review found a recurrence rate of 10.5% with high-dose-rate brachytherapy for treatment of primary and recalcitrant keloids.32 Our results are consistent with these previous findings. 
Brachytherapy is a method of delivering radiation therapy that involves placing radioactive material inside or next to the desired region of interest. This is achieved first with implantation of a hollow catheter at the site of the excised keloid tumor, and then the patient is subsequently sent to the radiation oncology department for brachytherapy delivery through the catheter.3 A treatment planning system is used to provide uniform high dose distribution and minimal dose to surrounding tissues.27 In our analysis we include two studies that use Ir-192 high dose rate brachytherapy for treatment of recalcitrant auricular keloids with a dosing regimen of 15Gy in 3 fractions.3,20 One fraction of 5Gy is given following keloid excision on the same day, followed by 5Gy on post-operative days one and two. After completion of three treatments the catheter is removed.3 
An analysis of 2515 primary and recalcitrant keloids, 36.9% of which were on the earlobe, recommended radiotherapy delivered with limited fractions of high doses in a short time period directly after surgery as the best strategy.33 Perioperative interstitial high dose rate brachytherapy can be delivered in this fashion.27 Brachytherapy may be preferable to external beam radiation given the lower dose of radiation needed to achieve similar effect and decreased toxicity to adjacent tissues.3 Further, our narrow confidence interval indicates that brachytherapy may be preferred to external beam radiation or intralesional steroid injections as the recurrence rates for these last two treatment modalities are more variable (Table 3).

Excision with Compression Therapy
We calculated an estimated recurrence rate of 14% (95% CI, 12%-17%) for recalcitrant auricular keloids treated with excision and adjuvant compression therapy. Reported recurrence rates range from 0-30% for auricular keloids not specific to the recalcitrant population.34, 35 Although the use of compression therapy for keloids was first documented in 167836, few high-quality studies exist. To our knowledge, there are no meta-analyses or RCTs looking at compression therapy for auricular keloids. One study with 1436 keloids found a recurrence rate of 10.6% for auricular keloids.10
We found that compression therapy varied in device type and treatment duration. Most studies recommended the patient to wear the device for at least 12 hours/day, with a duration of therapy ranging from 4 - 15 months.10,35,37,38 Pressures in the range of 24 to 30mm Hg are recommended to achieve the necessary hypoxic effect while avoiding ischemic complications39 such as ulceration and necrosis34,38, which can also be mitigated with the design of the splint38,40. Only two studies report the amount of pressure exerted by the compression device.10,37 Another complicating factor of compression therapy is patient non-compliance10,41 due to discomfort and aesthetics of the device.38 Park and colleagues attempted to address device aesthetics using magnets37, but this device does not allow for pressure adjustment38. Similar to brachytherapy, we are more confident in recommending compression therapy as a treatment modality for recalcitrant auricular keloids compared to external beam radiation or intralesional steroid injection which were found to have significantly wider confidence intervals (Table 3).

Excision with External Beam Radiation Therapy
A recent systematic review estimated a recurrence rate of 14% (95% CI, 9.6%-19.9%) for combined primary and recalcitrant auricular keloids treated with excision and adjuvant radiotherapy18. We found a recurrence rate of 17% (95% CI, 3%-56%) for recalcitrant auricular keloids treated with adjuvant external beam radiation. This suggests that recalcitrant auricular keloids may have similar recurrence rates when treated with adjuvant external beam radiation when compared to primary auricular keloids, although the uncertainty around our estimate is large. Treatment regimens varied between included studies with the radiation dose ranging from 10-30Gy8,9,21,42. In one study, radiation was performed pre- and post-surgery.42 In all other studies, radiation began within8,22 or after 24 hours post-surgery.21 . One study found that this timing difference may have negligible effects on keloid recurrence19. 
Radiation therapy has been noted to cause hyperpigmentation and telangiectasia43. This is of particular importance for auricular keloids as the cosmetic appearance can have significant psychosocial impact44. Exposure to radiation also has the potential to increase the risk of cancer; however, a systematic review of 6656 keloids treated with adjuvant radiotherapy, including one study that had a follow-up of 20 years with no reported cases of induced cancer19, found only 5 cases of possible radiation induced cancers45. Nevertheless, more research is needed to determine whether external beam radiation therapy is a safe and effective treatment modality for recalcitrant auricular keloids.

Excision with Intralesional Steroid Injection
Shin and colleagues, report a recurrence rate of 15.4% (95% CI, 9.4%-24.1%) for combined primary and recalcitrant auricular keloids treated with excision and adjuvant steroid injections.18 Our analysis found a recurrence rate of 18% (95% CI, 4%-53%) for recalcitrant auricular keloids, suggesting that steroid injections may be equally effective for treating primary or recalcitrant auricular keloids. Intralesional steroids are a common treatment for keloids due to their ease of use, good response rate and minimal side effect profile46. Recurrence rates of 3%-60% have been reported for treatment of keloids, whether primary or recalcitrant, with surgical excision and adjuvant steroid injections.1 This is consistent with the results from our study. 
In our review, the dose of triamcinolone acetonide ranged from 20-40mg/ml, and the timing of administration varied. Injections were given preoperatively and post-operatively6, intraoperatively7,46, postoperatively in 1 month intervals6,7 or as one post-operative injection46. The different treatment regimens make direct comparisons of recurrence amongst studies difficult. Adverse effects associated with steroid injections, including pain on injection, skin atrophy, depigmentation and telangiectasia, have been found in up to 63% of patients1,47. These side effects, as well as a recurrence rate of 26%, should be weighed against the benefits of administering steroid injections.

Other treatments
We identified 16 other treatment regimens for recalcitrant auricular keloids including (1) surgical excision and imiquimod12,48 (2) radiofrequency ablation49,50, (3) surgical excision, mitomycin C and steroids51, (5) surgical excision, steroid injections, radiation and compression13, (6) cryosurgery52, (7) laser and steroids53,54, (8) surgical excision and CO2 laser55, (9) surgical excision and mitomycin C56, (10) collagenase injections and compression57, (11) ksharsutra and agnikarma58, (12) verapamil and compression59, (13) surgical excision + verapamil60, (14) surgical excision and platelet-rich plasma, (15) surgical excision, steroid injections and compression14, (16) surgical excision, compression and steroid tape61 . Although some of these treatments show promising results, there is limited data and we did not include them in our analysis. 
Follow-up Interval
While keloids have been reported to recur more than two years later19, many studies have found that the majority of recurrence is within the first year after treatment; accordingly, it is generally well accepted to have a minimum follow-up of at least one year62. In our analysis, we did not find a significant difference between treatment modalities using a six-month (p=0.40) or one-year follow-up period (p=0.71). This may provide justification for the use of a six-month follow-up period, however, future studies would be needed to confirm these findings.

Limitations
The primary limitation of this study was the lack of high quality studies available. The LOE of our included studies was III or IV, and the overall number of studies for each treatment was low. This is consistent with a literature review that found the majority of evidence for keloid treatments to be based on LOE IV studies63. Many studies on the treatment of keloids have small numbers of patients10,62, leading to high uncertainty around the estimated recurrence rates. 
There is large heterogeneity across studies, which makes strong interpretations of the data challenging; however, we attempted to mitigate this with rigorous inclusion/exclusion criteria. Relevant clinical predictors including keloid size, histopathological confirmation, keloid age, keloid growth rate, family history of hypertrophic scars/keloids and ethnicity are inconsistently reported between studies, making it impossible to control for these variables when comparing treatment modalities.15 Recurrence is variably defined and sometimes not defined at all. Keloids can present with pruritus or pain47, and therefore, recurrence can be assessed as return of symptoms or the amount of regrowth. The dosage, frequency, and timing vary between studies within each treatment modality. Anatomical location was heterogeneously reported across studies and we were unable to differentiate earlobe and non-earlobe keloids. Evidence has shown that there may not be a difference in recurrence rates between earlobe and helical auricular keloids10; however, this is not specific to recalcitrant auricular keloids.
We did not control for the type of prior treatment for the included recalcitrant keloids. This data was either not reported or reported without quantification of which keloids had which primary treatment.22, 27 Therefore we had insufficient data to describe primary treatment of the included recalcitrant auricular keloids. We attempted to reduce data loss by contacting authors in cases with incomplete manuscripts. We limited our study to papers in English and excluded unobtainable papers, which may bias our results. Where number of patients and not the number of keloids was reported, we assumed that each patient had a single keloid. Resultantly, we may have underestimated our sample size for six included studies as patients may have had more than one keloid.3,10,37,38,42,46 

Conclusions 
The data for the treatment of recalcitrant auricular keloids is heterogeneous and includes few high quality studies. This is reflected in our analyses as we found large variability in our meta-analyses accentuated by smaller study sizes combined with few studies in each treatment modality. After rigorous application of inclusion/exclusion criteria, our analysis demonstrates that surgical excision with adjuvant brachytherapy has the lowest recurrence rate when compared with adjuvant compression therapy, radiotherapy, and steroid injections. In the literature, adjuvant brachytherapy has low recurrence rates for treatment of keloids. Although we did not achieve statistical significance, there may be an important clinical difference between treatment modalities that may be revealed as research in this field expands and the number of recalcitrant auricular keloids being treated in the literature increases. The narrow confidence intervals reported here for brachytherapy and compression therapy may help surgeons more confidently recommend either of these treatment modalities to patients, as opposed to external beam radiation or intralesional steroid injection which carry greater variability in their reported recurrence rates (Table 3). While difficult to make any direct comparisons, our results suggest that treatment with surgical excision and adjuvant steroid injection or adjuvant external beam radiation may result in higher recurrence rates for recalcitrant auricular keloids when compared to primary auricular keloids. This review and meta-analysis should draw attention to the need for further investigation using high quality studies, preferably randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies with adequate controls.
Acknowledgements 
We acknowledge Maia A. Smith for her contribution to the R code automating initial duplicate detection of results from our database searches and Anthony-Alexander Christidis from the Applied Statistics and Data Science Group through the UBC Department of Statistics.